Update Calendar user docs for Nextcloud 23 / Calendar 3 (#7652)
nextcloud/documentation: user_manual/groupware/calendar.rst

Using the Calendar app
======================

> .. note:: The Calendar app comes installed with Nextcloud Hub by default, but can be disabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. note:: The Calendar app comes installed with Nextcloud Hub by default, which can be disabled.
```

Author: this doesn't make sense IMO. then it sounds like you can disable that the app comes by default

> .. note:: The Calendar app comes installed with Nextcloud Hub by default, but can be disabled.

Reviewer 2: We should say the dav backend is always active even if the app is missing or disabled.

Reviewer 3: This is the user manual, not the dev / admin one. I don't think users need this info tbh.

Reviewer 2: We can remove the whole note then.

Reviewer 4: I would vote for leaving it here. Many users have old NC version in use and read the docs.

Reviewer 2: @rakekniven I don't see the connection

Author: I also don't think the info about the dav back-end is relevant for users. But the note about getting in contact with their admin if they don't have a calendar is still relevant. I would leave the note. It was only adapted because calendar is now installed by default. In the past is was not.

          Please ask your Administrator for it.

The Nextcloud Calendar app works similar to other calendar applications you can
sync your Nextcloud calendars and events with.

When you first access the Calendar app, a default first calendar will be created for you.

.. figure:: images/calendar_application.png

Managing your calendars
-----------------------

Create a new Calendar
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> If you plan to setup a new calendar without transferring any old data from your

Reviewer 3: plan on setting up a new

          have a local backup.

.. figure:: images/calendar_dropdown.png
            :scale: 80%

1. Click on the three-dot-menu of the respective calendar.

.. figure:: images/calendar_editing.png
            :scale: 80%

2. Click on ``Edit name``, ``Edit color``, ``Download`` or ``Delete``.

Sharing calendars
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You may share your calendar with other users or groups. Calendars may be shared with write access or read-only. When sharing a calendar with write access, users with whom the calendar is shared will be able to create new events into the calendar as well as edit and delete existing ones.

> .. note:: Calendar shares currently can't be accepted or rejected. If you want to stop having a calendar that someone shared with you, you can click on the 3-dot menu next to the calendar in the calendar list and click on "Unshare from me". Calendars shared with a group can not be unshared by individuals.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. note:: Calendar shares currently cannot be accepted or rejected. If you want to stop having a calendar that someone shared with you, you can click on the 3-dot menu next to the calendar in the calendar list and click on "Unshare from me". Calendars shared with a group cannot be unshared by individuals.
```

> To change the default view or date of an embedded calendar, you need to provide an URL that look like ``https://cloud.example.com/index.php/apps/calendar/embed/<token>/<view>/<date>``.

Reviewer 3: an URL that **looks** like

.. only:: html

  .. figure:: images/calendar_new-event_week.png

The month-view only requires a single click into the area of the target day.

.. only:: html

  .. figure:: images/calendar_new-event_month.png

After that, you can type in the event's name (e.g. **Meeting with Lukas**), choose

> the calendar in which you want to choose the event (e.g. **Personal**, **Work**),

Reviewer 3: the calendar in which you want to *save* the event

> check and concretize the time span or set the event as all-day event. Optionally

Reviewer 3: as **an** all-day  event

you can specify a location and a description.

> If you want to edit advanced details such as the **Attendees**, **Reminders** or 

Reviewer 3: the **Attendees** or **Reminders**, or if you want to set the event as

Reviewer: In my opinion, repeating "or" twice is not stylistically. I would leave this text sequence unchanged.

to set the event as a repeating-event click on the ``More`` button to open the
advanced sidebar editor.

.. note:: If you always want to open the advanced sidebar editor instead of the
          simple event editor popup, you can set a ``Skip simple event
          editor`` checkmark in the ``Settings & Import`` section of the app.

> Clicking on the blue ``Save``-button will finally create the event.

Reviewer 3: `Save`` button

  .. figure:: images/calendar_event_menu.png
              :scale: 70%

.. tip:: If you delete events they will go into your :ref:`trash bin<calendar-trash-bin>`. You can restore accidentally deleted events there.

.. _calendar-attendees:

Invite attendees to an event
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You may add attendees to an event to let them know they're invited. They will receive an email invitation and will be able to confirm or cancel their participation to the event.
Attendees may be other users on your Nextcloud instances, contacts in your address books and direct email addresses. You may also change the level of participation per attendees, or disable the email information for a specific attendee.

  .. figure:: images/calendar_event_invitation_level.png
              :scale: 80%

.. tip:: When adding other Nextcloud users as attendees to an event, you may access their free-busy information if available, helping you determine when the best time slot for your event is. Set your :ref:`working hours<calendar-working-hours>` to let others know when you are available. Free-busy information is only available for other users on the same Nextcloud instance.

> .. attention:: Only the calendar owner can send out invitations. The sharees are not able to do that, whether they have write access to the event's calendar or not.

Author: https://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/sharee

This is the old text. I mildly improved it due to a review suggestion. But this was really not the point of the PR, sorry. Could you open a ticket so this is addressed globally if *sharee* should be replaced *everywhere*? Thank :v:

If you open the sidebar view and click the three dot menu next to the event name, you have an option to export the event as an ``.ics`` file or remove the event from your calendar.

  .. figure:: images/calendar_event_menu.png
              :scale: 70%

.. tip:: If you delete events they will go into your :ref:`trash bin<calendar-trash-bin>`. You can restore accidentally deleted events there.

.. _calendar-attendees:

Invite attendees to an event
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You may add attendees to an event to let them know they're invited. They will receive an email invitation and will be able to confirm or cancel their participation to the event.

> Attendees may be other users on your Nextcloud instances, contacts in your address books and direct email addresses. You also may change the level of participation per attendees, or disable email confirmation for a specific attendee.

Reviewer 3: You may also change

Reviewer 3: or disable the email confirmation

  .. figure:: images/calendar_event_invitation_level.png
              :scale: 80%

> .. tip:: When adding other Nextcloud users as attendees to an event, you may access their free-busy information if available, helping you to determine when is the best time slot for your event. Set your :ref:`working hours<calendar-working-hours>` to let others know when you are available. Free-busy information is only available for other users on the same Nextcloud instance.

Reviewer 3: helping you determine when the best time slot for your event is.

> .. attention:: Only the calendar owner can send out invitations, the sharees are not able to do that, whether they have write access to the event's calendar or not.

Reviewer 3: invitations. The sharees

You can also tell when the recurrence ends.

.. figure:: images/calendar_event_repeat.png
              :scale: 80%

.. _calendar-trash-bin:

Trash bin
~~~~~~~~~

> If you delete events, tasks or a calendar in Calendar, your data won't be gone yet. Instead, those items will be collected in a *trash bin*. This offers you to undo a deletion. After a period of 30 days those items will be deleted permanently. You can also permanently delete earlier if you wish.

Reviewer 2: You can delete them from other clients as well.

Author: how? delete from other clients will move the event to the trash bin. the trash bin is not accessible for other clients

Reviewer 2: I mean the events are placed into the trashbin even if the events are deleted from other clients, but we need to make it clear the trashbin is accessible only through the Calendar app.

.. figure:: images/calendar_trash_bin.png

The ``Empty trash bin`` buttons will wipe all trash bin contents in one step.

> .. tip:: The trash bin is only accessible from the Calendar app. Any connected application or app won't be able to display its contents. However, events, tasks and calendars deleted in external applications will also end up in the trash bin.

Reviewer 2: Precise Nextcloud Calendar app.

> Application or app?

Maybe client or app?

Author: the whole page is about the *Calendar app*

Reviewer 2: Please change `connected application or app` though
